Starting a chaincode on the channel¶
After you have created a channel, you can start using smart contracts to interact with the channel ledger. Smart contracts contain the business logic that governs assets on the blockchain ledger. Applications run by members of the network can invoke smart contracts to create assets on the ledger, as well as change and transfer those assets. Applications also query smart contracts to read data on the ledger.

To ensure that transactions are valid, transactions created using smart contracts typically need to be signed by multiple organizations to be committed to the channel ledger. Multiple signatures are integral to the trust model of Fabric. Requiring multiple endorsements for a transaction prevents one organization on a channel from tampering with the ledger on their peer or using business logic that was not agreed to. To sign a transaction, each organization needs to invoke and execute the smart contract on their peer, which then signs the output of the transaction. If the output is consistent and has been signed by enough organizations, the transaction can be committed to the ledger. The policy that specifies the set organizations on the channel that need to execute the smart contract is referred to as the endorsement policy, which is set for each chaincode as part of the chaincode definition.

In Fabric, smart contracts are deployed on the network in packages referred to as chaincode. A Chaincode is installed on the peers of an organization and then deployed to a channel, where it can then be used to endorse transactions and interact with the blockchain ledger. Before a chaincode can be deployed to a channel, the members of the channel need to agree on a chaincode definition that establishes chaincode governance. When the required number of organizations agree, the chaincode definition can be committed to the channel, and the chaincode is ready to be used.

After you have used the network.sh to create a channel, you can start a chaincode on the channel using the following command:

./network.sh deployCC -ccn basic -ccp ../asset-transfer-basic/chaincode-go -ccl go
The deployCC subcommand will install the asset-transfer (basic) chaincode on peer0.org1.example.com and peer0.org2.example.com and then deploy the chaincode on the channel specified using the channel flag (or mychannel if no channel is specified). If you are deploying a chaincode for the first time, the script will install the chaincode dependencies. You can use the language flag, -ccl, to install the Go, typescript or javascript versions of the chaincode. You can find the asset-transfer (basic) chaincode in the asset-transfer-basic folder of the fabric-samples directory. This folder contains sample chaincode that are provided as examples and used by tutorials to highlight Fabric features.
